There are times when we want to do something called traversal and the name traversal and search is often
used interchangeably sometimes meaning the same thing sometimes not.
Up until now we talked about binary search trees and we knew what we're looking for.
And we always knew where to go left or right but other times we want to do some operations on the same
note as I mentioned before we might want to add a color property to this note.
Perhaps if we had a user node we want to add an H property to all our users that are in a tree structure.
Brewhouse do you want to add a shape property to these nodes.
Or perhaps we don't have a sorted tree.
It's not a binary search tree or we have a graph that has no order to it in which case we have to visit
every node.
Or maybe we're working on google and our boss asked us to hey can we check if our binary search stream
we entered into our database is correct and that it's actually valid and making sure that the left item
is always lower than the right item.
And in order for us to check that we have to touch every single note but how would we go about doing
this.
You can think of traversals as visiting every note and as you can imagine because we're visiting every
node that's an owner of an operation linear time.
Up until now we did loops to visit all of our other data structures like arrays linked lists hash tables
queues stacks.
So how do we go about doing this in a data structure like a tree or even a graph.
Luckily for us there's two ways of doing this that we need to learn.
One it's right over here.
Do we have to do a tree traversal or do we have to do a graph traversal.
In that case our two options are the exact same.
We have breadth first search and depth first search and sometimes this is called traversal instead of
search as you can see both with trees and crafts.
It's the same thing.
The big O is o of and because we have to visit every single node using these two techniques.
But let's review why this is important and why we don't store everything and just lists which are simpler
to understand.
Well the main benefit of why we don't put complex data into just lists like arrays that are sorted is
that we get the O of log n searching.
What about hash tables.
Those are easy.
Well remember that hash tables aren't order and at the end of the day when you represent data with different
data structures based on their needs and trees and grass worked really well for a lot of cases which
we've already discussed when we search for things we have the benefit but also when we insert or delete
items we have better performance than something like an array.
But we also maintain the order that we wouldn't have otherwise with hash tables trees and graphs used
a lot when we want to search nodes or visit every node and it represents a lot of data that models the
real world.
Now let's explore how these two traversal techniques work.
I'll see in the next one.